So on network is working.
So we've integrated the NPM VM with our Jeana's three typology we've tested IP connectivity.
So now we can connect to NPM and log in.
So your role to use these local host Colan the 787 or alternatively the hostname of your PC the default
user name is admen the default password is no password.
In other words blank that shown here and you can change that by going to Settings Manager accounts.
I'm going to log in with those default values.
And now we can start on Network Discovery.
Some of the click start we can discover devices by using a small subnet such as slushed 24 or by specifying
individual IP addresses.
I'm going to add a range of addresses 10 dot one day at one hundred one to ten dot one dot 100 dots
three
and click next.
Well make this a bit bigger so it's easier to read
next week told that NPM can check all nodes.
Currently polling with agents for updates by selecting this option.
All nodes currently polling via an agent will be polled for updates.
The setting is helpful when using scheduled discoveries to keep agent updates current.
So I want to select that option and click next.
Do we want to log in to ESX sigh so we can pull a VM Ware and add Alvie Santal ESX credentials.
I'm going to click next now by default SMP or simple network management protocol.
Will you use a public and private community value for accessing devices.
Now we configured all routers
so show run pipe.
Include SMP with a community value of NPM So we need to add a new credential here
the value is going to be NPM click ADD.
So there it is.
Next we can add Windows credentials if we want to allow solar winds NPM to collect CPQ memory and volume
data from Windows servers that don't support as an MP.
For now I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to click next.
We asked how we would like to set up what 2 monitors.
Manually set up monitoring devices are discovered automatically Monitor based on my defined monitoring
settings.
I'm going to leave it at that the default of manual click next.
Now at any point you can go back through the wizard.
So at the moment Aamodt discovery settings could click back to go to monitoring settings so as an example
I might want to include devices that respond to pings alone clicked Next details of my discovery as
shown here.
I'm going accept the defaults and click Next I'm asked how often I want to do the polling that could
be hourly daily or other options.
I'm going to select one only and I want to run the Discovery right now.
So click.
Discover the discovery process is then started.
And you can see here are three notes have been discovered.
You can see the overall progress indicator so at this point 3 broad as were discovered and one Windows
7 workstation was discovered.
Click next.
Now which interfaces should be monitored by default up interfaces are monitored.
The port.
Mode of trunk access will unknown is going to be monitored and physical virtual and unknown interfaces
are going to be monitored.
We can see a list of interfaces as an example.
On Grado one first Ethan it is 0 0 is up.
But first Ethan at one slash is zero he's down.
So my various interfaces including serial interfaces are shown here of the interfaces are also listed
such as node 0 as well as the loop back into faces of the devices.
As an example show I.P interface brief on Rotto one shows a list of interfaces so you can see the first.
Ethan interfaces and serial interfaces.
So that interface information is being picked up by the solar winds.
NPM application.
Click next on my PC I can view ram a virtual memory fixed disk space and other options.
Here's the import preview so we can decide what we want to import.
I'm going import my routers as well as the Windows machine and you can see that information is now being
imported into the database.
The import has finished so I'm going to click Finish going to my dashboards summary.
I can see that I have three Cisco routers route a one two and three
and unknown device has also been picked up.
That is the additional IP address on my local Windows PC.
I can also see that I have issues connecting to Google dot com as an example.
So let's click on one of the radhe radhe a one you can see the notice up can see the IP address machine
type description and other information about the Rodda including as an example interface utilization.
That's how you get NPM integrated with a genius 3 network.
Not only is APM a very powerful application and we look at some of the features as we go through the
course but it also helps to learn practically simple network management protocol and the management
of network devices using a management station.